breaking: replace `EnvVarConfig.static` with `EnvVarConfig.availability` (#16267)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/20-core-concepts/70-environment-variables.md

});
```

If a value is invalid, the app will fail to start (or build). If the variable is only available at run time (for example a secret that isn't set during the build), use `availability: 'runtime'` so that it is only validated when the app starts:

```ts
/// file: src/env.ts
import { defineEnvVars } from '@sveltejs/kit/hooks';
import * as v from 'valibot';

export const variables = defineEnvVars({
	SECRET: {
		// required when the app starts, but not validated during the build
		+++availability: 'runtime',+++
		schema: v.string()
	}
});
```

You can use validators to make values optional, or transform them (such as turning a string into a boolean, or parsing JSON) — see your validation library's documentation to learn how.

### Availability

> The `availability` property controls when a variable's value is available, and therefore when it is validated. It has four possible values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `availability` property controls when a variable's value is available, and therefore when it is validated. It has three possible values:
```

> - `'dynamic'` (default) — the value is validated and used during runtime and buildtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `'dynamic'` (default) — the value is validated and used during runtime and build time.
```

});
```

If a value is invalid, the app will fail to start (or build). If the variable is only available at run time (for example a secret that isn't set during the build), use `availability: 'runtime'` so that it is only validated when the app starts:

```ts
/// file: src/env.ts
import { defineEnvVars } from '@sveltejs/kit/hooks';
import * as v from 'valibot';

export const variables = defineEnvVars({
	SECRET: {
		// required when the app starts, but not validated during the build
		+++availability: 'runtime',+++
		schema: v.string()
	}
});
```

You can use validators to make values optional, or transform them (such as turning a string into a boolean, or parsing JSON) — see your validation library's documentation to learn how.

### Availability

The `availability` property controls when a variable's value is available, and therefore when it is validated. It has four possible values:

> - `'dynamic'` (default) — the value is read from the environment when the app starts, and is also validated at build time. Use this when the value is the same at build time and run time.

Reviewer 2: > Use this when the value is the same at build time and run time.

Shouldn't it be the other way around, use this when it is different?

Author: No - this is probably misphrased, it should be "Use this when the value is available both at build time and run time".

- `'inline'` — the value is inlined into your application code at build time, enabling optimisations like dead-code elimination. It is validated at build time.
- `'runtime'` — the value is only available when the app runs. It is validated at runtime only, so the build will succeed even if the value is absent. The value is `undefined` during the build, so the variable is typed as `T | undefined`.

> - `'buildtime'` — the value is only available during the build. It is validated at buildtime, but is `undefined` at runtime. The variable is typed as `T | undefined`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `'dynamic'` (default) — the value is validated and used during runtime and buildtime.
- `'inline'` — the value is validated and inlined during buildtime, making it a regular string during runtime. This enable optimisations like dead-code elimination.
- `'runtime'` — the value is validated and used during runtime. The value is `undefined` during buildtime, so it is typed as `T | undefined`.
- `'buildtime'` — the value is validated and used during buildtime. The value is `undefined` during runtime, so it is typed as `T | undefined`.
```
